---
layout: posts
title:  "Handling Blindspots - the 10% Exception Rule"
date:  2025-07-16 16:19:04 +0530
categories: blog
tag: general, philosophy
---
Since my childhood, I have always ensured that I create a very refined circle of influence around me. I do not allow people who I do not respect to enter that space. and by virtue of that, right now, I have a lot of smart people in my circle. right now when I see these people as a third person observer over. There are a lot of things I noticed and amongst them are things that I could change in them that would make them even more successful. Right? But it never happens. It rarely happens that a person based on your advice changes the way they are outpicked or the way they look at life, right? so I thought a lot about it and I realized the following things you are any person exists in nature because the way they decide things or the way they do things is pretty optimized like they are living living in some sort of balance or optimum, optimal way that they are living. that ensures that they live a very sorted life right but if you want to if instead of just living you want to thrive then that That requires you to, every now and then, move one step ahead or move beyond the life that you currently have right and that involves doing and that would generally mean that you do things that do not come naturally to you, right? now the biggest thing the biggest blocker in all of our lives is whether we do not know when to make that jump or when to or what to decide One of the blessings of the information age is that we do not have lack of ideas anymore right there are a lot of ideas out there from what pants to wear how to behave in public to how to start a company, what type of company to start, you know, how to, they are n number of, We are living in the post-truth world and there are a lot of truths to choose from but not not all those truths can lead to some kind of breakthrough success for us, right? So we have to be very picky, very choosy with respect to the type of things that we choose. Now, how do you choose that? 


So I have some ideas around that as to how to choose from such vast plethora of choices. and it has to do with what I am calling the thin person exceptionally. right every person around you you know if you are if you're actually choosing like me, you would surround yourself with people who are much better than you and a lot of other things. Right? The goal of this exercise is to list down all the people that you admire and the things that you admire about them, right?

Now let's suppose you wanted, you run a company and there is a certain belief and a certain and perception that you have around the users that you want to target and the market that Now, let's suppose someone else comes to you and they tell you that their idea is stupid and it might not work or it's not... Now, where will you, how will you gauge if that person, if they are in their senses or not, right? the most logical answer would be that you would know by yourself you would have your own biases for choosing something in your life, right? But the idea here is to look for exceptions, right? There could be a number of ways of doing things and again the idea is to look for exceptions and not so that you get some breakout success, right? and it's a 50/50 rule, you either get very successful or you fail. It's entirely dependent on their side but what is for sure is that you will not remain wherever you are currently. 

So, let's suppose, like me, you are a pretty laid back personality, a kind of human who doesn't like to rush into things or who thinks through things very very strategically before taking any decisions, right? and but there is a decision that you've been pondering for like say a month now Now in such a case, how I did it, I reached out to the most impatient, bias for action human that I know of, a person who doesn't think much before taking any big decisions, right? And when you see things from their angle, it generally makes more sense. because they are looking at it from a non biased rationale. Now you can't apply this to every decision in your life and it will be very stupid if if you go around asking everyone for their advice, but what it will allow you is to have some variety in your decision making so that whatever Whatever general trajectory that you have chosen for yourself, you can break out of it and for good or bad, it will have some variety in it, right? so yeah this is how So at least now I am handling my mud blind squats, the 10% exception rate. 