---
layout: posts
title:  "The Post-Truth World and the Future of Identity"
date:  2025-09-20 01:06:04 +0530
categories: blog
tag: society, polities
---

Will we live in a post-truth world? Trot doesn't matter. what you believe, how you perceive the truth does. 

It has become more apparent after the death of Charlie Kirk and after having been opened my eyes to the events around me it has become even more clear you can see this in the Israel Palestine war you can see this in the anti-Muslim rights in Britain you can see and the immigration issues in the EU. you can see this between India versus Europe, India versus US trade relations you can see in the Op Sindoor incident. 

It's everywhere. Truth doesn't matter. Your version of the truth or your perspective of the truth does. 

As a person who takes pride in being the morally upright person, it nudges me to have the most true view of things and there lies the problem. There is no truth. There is no right view. All views are in the post-route world in the the world wherein your rendition of truth is what matters rather than the truth itself. it's very hard to Remain unbiased, deeply rational and not get swayed by what any person says or does on the internet, right? 

And there lies the problem. And the problem is, now this stage of problem is not with myself, but with the society at large. I see youngsters of today getting influenced by a certain ideology on Reddit, on Instagram and because these platforms are built to be echo chambers, those ideas get resonated within their own echo chambers and they think that to be real. 

What is troublesome is that this type of hyper localized and resonated views is what created all the issues that I have highlighted above. the extent to which the left of left in the west that is the The extreme leftists in the West created the issues that they are facing today. the issue of ethnic Islam, the issue of immigration, the issue of anti-Islamophobia, the issue of any issues taken to an extreme has created or has resulted in a world that has created a more fragmented or more divided world and I don't know the solution to it right but But in my trials of being a person who is traversing at that age group that is being in the first right now I could only share few nuggets of wisdom that I have seen work Number one, it is not your job to side with any ideology.

 I do not think in today's world that is even the luxury that you can give yourself. No identity is the best identity. You do not want to limit yourself to just one identity. 
 
 Number two, understand that all the people that you follow around you, their views are are a rendition of their own perspectives. They might be right in one view and at the same time incorrect on the other. you do not have to hold it hold yourself to following whatever they are saying Now at this point I think I want to give you an example of this. recent video Arun Thadiroye came up right where she compared how India after colonial rules since 1947 has itself become colonial wherein it has engulfed a lot of regional identities like the tribals of northeast India or the Goans or the Kashmiris and stuff like that. Now this kind of stupid rhetoric is what undas a nation. Read history and you will find how deeply or morally ambiguous identity of identity, dust domination. Pakistan till today is suffering from that identity. they do not have an identity, they cannot, when you do not have a single identity and you want to create a new value, you create it against the entire identity of Pakistan is to be anti-India and not to be a nation that stands for certain values. use. As long as your identity is flawed, you will be flawed. So this point is impeded very, very important. 

 But three is the filter of rationality and first principle thinking. Now, this has been popularized recently in recent years by Elon Musk and I believe that is where it all started but I strongly believe that people, teenagers from today or people who would see themselves as part of a certain group or certain ideology really need to do some kind of honest reconciliation with themselves. It is very very easy to believe in certain things and it is very very hard and at times It even takes courage to question things the way they exist and try to understand them. It is very easy for example to hate on the government that's ruling but it is equally very very hard to understand the motors, understand why they do certain things and and if you are not alert, you will be pushed into a certain ideology by the people whose job it is to pedal that ideology. Now this works on both ways and just as an experiment experiment. If you want to experiment, open two Twitter accounts and follow a certain type of ideology on each of those accounts and you will see on each point how well the difference of opinion lies. is how deep the valley, how deep the gap is. You will see two sides of the same argument and you will deeply understand how deeply flawed people are and how deeply flawed their comprehension the tension of a situation is 

 In such situations it becomes imperative that you have a built-in system of filtering, all these insights information you should be the advocate for both for and against a certain argument and only when you are deeply, deeply convinced about a certain way of thinking only then should you allow it to be your main thought process. 

 Now lastly, I would say remain open and this is the hardest lesson that even I have not be able to counterhand or perfect yet take the name of Osho in front of me and I'll cringe take the name of Krishna in front of me, I might hear you intently but until a few years ago I would have cringed. take a religion, take name of religion or any religious identity and I will cringe in front of you. Now that doesn't speak volumes as to the openness that I have and I do not think that I am the right person for that but I strongly believe that in order to uncover the truth, in order to really be on the right path of of the rightists, truth. you need to be deeply open about other views and especially be critical of the views that you currently have. 

 Now, all of these points combined, if you look at the sharanj of all the arguments, You could put it in a single sentence as believe nothing and critique everything. That is a very good philosophy to live in, only until you realize that all the issues that we have in today's day and age are because of this single belief and like England was was prospering, other countries were suffering, people wanted to do good to those people, They invited them here, but they did not realize the larger practical implementation of those those policies and lo and behold their society is now crunching. The same has happened in India, the two Hindu Muslims. the same has happened across the world when they invited Syria, the Afghan and other refugees into their countries. and it will keep on happening. It has said that the path to destruction is paved by good intentions, I strongly believe this. But I strongly believe that the core concept that it should take home from this blog should be taken to any opinion, view, belief, faith taken to extreme only does bad. It could be the purest of emotions, it could be the purest of emotions, it could be the purists of views and you take them to an extreme and they have the ability to falter or to to be be misconstrued by the people having a certain view or something. So, if nothing, one thing that you should definitely pull from this blog is that you You do not believe anything completely. Complete absolute belief in a certain idea or value is the death of thinking itself. And that's it. I hope you have a senior enjoyable and a peaceful time on the internet and I hope that this world, humanity at large and the people of the universe are able to be more open and meeting people especially meeting people of the opposite view. Thank you. 